# launch-gen

Generate code from launch YML

1. [Running](#running)
2. [Migrating to use in a Golang repo](#migrating-to-use-in-a-golang-repo)
3. [Dependency overrides](#dependency-overrides)

```sh
$ launch-gen --help
Usage of ./bin/launch-gen:
  -d string
        Dependency name to override. You can provide multiple dependencies in the format dep1:replacementDep1,dep2:replacementDep2,...
  -o string
        optional output to file. Default is stdout
  -p string
        optional package name (default "main")
  -skip-dependency value
        Dependency to skip generating wag clients. Can be added mulitple times e.g. -skip-dependency a -skip-dependency b
```

## Running

Build it

```
make build
```

Run it

```
./bin/launch-gen <path-to-launch-yml>
```

## Migrating to use in a Golang repo

This assumes you have a `go mod` repo.

1. Grab the latest version of `launch-gen`.

```bash
go get github.com/Clever/launch-gen
```

2. Within your repo's `Makefile`, declare `launch-gen` to be built on every `install_deps` invocation. Example:

```bash
install_deps:
    go mod vendor
    go build -o bin/launch-gen -mod=vendor ./vendor/github.com/Clever/launch-gen
```

3. Include as a blank import, to make sure `launch-gen` is declared as a dependency in `go.mod`. See [Clever/template-wag](https://github.com/Clever/template-wag/blob/2cbdec713ce3787970c25aa6c08a32ceb4c12336/tools/tools.go) for an example.

4. On the entry point of your application, include a stanza to generate the config. This should match the launch YAML in `launch/`.

```golang
// generate launch config
//go:generate sh -c "$PWD/bin/launch-gen -o launch.go -p main $PWD/launch/<your-application>.yml"
```

If you scope the current project's `/bin/` to the Makefile's path, then you can simplify the stanza:

```golang
// generate launch config
//go:generate launch-gen -o launch.go -p main $PWD/launch/<your-application>.yml
```

5. Ensure you call `go generate ./...` in the Makefile for paths that would be relevant for building or running the application. This allows the `//go:generate` stanza to run, which helps with building.

For example:

```bash
PKGS := $(shell go list ./... | grep -v /vendor | grep -v tools)
$(PKGS): generate golang-test-all-strict-deps
	$(call golang-test-all-strict,$@)

# Before the `test` recipe is called, `make generate` is called as a prerequisite.
test: $(PKGS)

# Before the `build` recipe is called, `make generate` is called as a prerequisite.
build: generate
	$(call golang-build,$(PKG),$(EXECUTABLE))

# Create a target that will run `go generate` when `make generate` is called.
generate:
	go generate ./...
```

6. Run `make generate`. `launch.go` should be within the specified directory.

7. Call `InitLaunchConfig()` during startup of your program, and use it when needed.

## Dependencies

By default, each dependency listed in `dependencies` will generate the following in `launch.go`:

1. An import of the service's client package – see below
2. The addition of a struct member for the service's `Client` type in the `Dependencies` struct
3. Constructing the client via discovery in `InitLaunchConfig()`
4. Returning the constructed client in the `LaunchConfig`

By default, `launch-gen` will map a service name specified in `dependencies` to a package of the form `github.com/Clever/[SERVICE_NAME]/gen-go/client`, matching the client package generated by WAG. For example, a dependency on `my-service` generates an import of package `github.com/Clever/my-service/gen-go/client`. You can customize the generated package name using the features documented below.

### Versions

If your service's module name and correspondingly its package names include the major version in the format `v2`, `v3`, and so on, you can specify the dependency in the format `my-service@vN`, where `my-service` is the service name and `N` is a whole number representing the major version.

This mapping assumes that the major version `vN` is appended to the default package name as a suffix:

```
my-service@v2 -> github.com/Clever/my-service/gen-go/client/v2
```

This mapping matches the convention used by WAG for services with a major version greater than 1. If your service dependency uses a different format, continue reading to [`Overrides`](#overrides) for greater control over the package name.

### Overrides

You can optionally override the package name for a service client dependency with the `-d` arg. Specifying `-d` will change the import statement in the generated `launch.go`. Originally, this option was also used to support services with a major version specified in the package and module names; this use case is now supported directly with the [Versions](#versions) syntax, although you can still achieve the same output with `-d`.

Dependency mappings are defined as a colon-separated pair of strings, as in `configuredDependency:replacementDependency`. You can specify multiple overrides with a comma-separated string of these mappings: `dependency1:replacementDependency1,dependency2:replacementDependency2`.

Since `launch.go` depends on the `client` package within each module, `launch-gen` appends a `/gen-go/client` suffix to the module name to specific the service's client package. If you override the dependency, you **must** specify the whole package path yourself; `launch-gen` will not automatically insert the `/gen-go/client` path anywhere in the override package name, since it cannot assume any particular format.

```sh
$ launch-gen -d "servica-a:service-a/gen-go/client/v4,service-b:api-b-client/special/unique/client"
# service-a -> github.com/Clever/service-a/gen-go/client/v4
# service-b -> github.com/Clever/api-b-client/special/unique/client
```

### Skipping

If you don't want to generate the package client at all, you can prevent that behavior by specifying `-skip-dependency SERVICE_NAME`. This argument can be specified multiple times.
